docs: add page on revoking access (#30577)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/management/security/revoking-access.mdx

---
title: Revoking Access
description: Learn how to revoke access before Teleport certificates expire
---

Teleport's approach to using short-lived certificates for all infrastructure
access means that it can generate large numbers of certificates every day. For
this reason, Teleport does not support traditional certificate revocation.

> There are two options available for revoking access: CA rotations, and Teleport locks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two options available for revoking access: CA rotations and Teleport locks.
```

> ## CA Rotations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## CA rotations
```
Since this isn't a product name

To generate a new certificate authority and invalidate user certificates issued
by the current CA, run `tctl auth rotate --type-user`. This process will require
that the newly generated CA certificate is uploaded to your entire fleet of
OpenSSH servers. This can be a disruptive change, especially in environments
that lack automation, so proceed with caution.

> 

Reviewer: Since this is a conceptual guide that combines concepts we document elsewhere under a commonly searched-for term, I would add a link to the CA rotation docs from here.

---
title: Revoking Access
description: Learn how to revoke access before Teleport certificates expire
---

Teleport's approach to using short-lived certificates for all infrastructure
access means that it can generate large numbers of certificates every day. For
this reason, Teleport does not support traditional certificate revocation.

There are two options available for revoking access: CA rotations and Teleport locks.

## CA rotations

To generate a new certificate authority and invalidate user certificates issued
by the current CA, run `tctl auth rotate --type-user`. This process will require
that the newly generated CA certificate is uploaded to your entire fleet of
OpenSSH servers. This can be a disruptive change, especially in environments
that lack automation, so proceed with caution.

See the [CA rotations guide](../operations/ca-rotation.mdx) for more details on
how to execute the procedure.

## Locks

Teleport locks allow you to permanently or temporarily revoke access to a number
of different "targets". Supported lock targets include: specific users, roles,

> servers, desktops, or MFA devices. When a lock is created any existing sessions
> where the lock applies will be terminated, and new sessions will be rejected while
> the lock remains in force.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
servers, desktops, or MFA devices. After you create a lock, all existing sessions
where the lock applies are terminated and new sessions are rejected until you
unlock the target.
```

Suggestion for using second person active voice.

Author: Accepted most of these changes, but kept "while the lock remains in force" because locks can also expire without an explicit unlock action.
